Our html pages look pretty boring and obviously this is no css course,
I got one if you want to learn more about css though but that's just a little side note
but this is no css course but still, it's important to understand how you can serve css in your
node apps too
because typically, you have css and also javascript code in your apps.
Now let's start simple,
I'm on the slash page here, so on shop.html and let's add some styling here with good old style tags
in the head section and this is not the way we'll keep it,
this is just so that we can work on it and auto-update this because importing an external style file
wouldn't work at the moment to spoil the fun already.
Now as before, you can skip this lecture
if you don't want to write the style together with me and you'll find it attached to the next lecture,
otherwise let's do this together.
So let's start styling this and let's start with the header.
Now I won't target the element directly instead
this will be my main navigation or my main header,
let's give it a class, main header
header,
this will be the main header nav and if you're wondering about the strange css class name, I'm using
a styling system named bem,
more on that can be learned in that css course I mentioned or of course you can google css bem,
it's a certain way of naming your classes to avoid double class names
basically, here I'll have my main header, whoops, header item list and here I'll have my main header
items like this and you can of course name this however you want.
So these are a bunch of css classes that should help us with styling,
now let's start with the header.
The header should have a width of 100% to take the full width of the page and let's say it should
have a height of 56 pixels
or if you want to work in rem which has certain advantages, we could also go with 3.5rem.
Now let's also give it a nice background color and here you're really free, I'll not stick to red but now
I can hover over this and use this nice color picker and pick any color you want,
now I'll try to pick a nice yellow golden-ish orange color, something like this
maybe, if you click on rgb it will also convert this to a hex code
so let's use that and of course the class is not header but main header. And now if I save this and go
back and reload,
we got that, looks better. Now
there is some padding in the body so
let's actually define that we want to have no padding and no margin,
I think it's a margin, that we don't want to have that, let's add this, looks almost better.
We still got some margin here at the top,
this is coming from our list in here though, that some margin call isn't doing its job here,
now let's also get rid of that. By now
also styling our main header
item list.
So let's copy that,
add a class here,
set the list style to none and remove any margin and padding
we might have here, that looks better. Now
obviously the items are not looking nice,
for this I will actually change the display here to flex to use flexbox for the list and then style
our items here a bit, on these items
for now I'll remove all margin and padding they might have, reload.
Now thanks to flexbox they're sitting next to each other,
now let's also style our links in there.
So main header item,
any nested anchor tag should have no text decoration and a color of white maybe, looks a bit better.
Now
vertical centering would also be nice
and for that I'll go back to the main header, excuse me, back to the main header nav here, let's add a class
for that too.
And here I'll first of all use a height of 100% because this is a child element of the main
header and therefore it should take all its height and this will also be display
flex now and we can center items vertically with align items centered now.
With this if I save that and reload this page,
now this is centered,
now let's add some padding to our main header.
For this let's go here, add a padding, top and bottom
I don't need padding but left and right maybe 1.5rem, something like this,
on mobile phone also still ok I'd say.
Let's also change the global font by the way
so in the body
I'll set the
font family to sans-serif for now,
looks a bit nicer than the serif font I think
and now I want to have some space in-between my navigation items there so
let's actually go to the main header item and let's add a margin to the left and right of 1rem, like
that
and for now, this will do.
Now little hovering effect for the links maybe,
so let's also go here, main header item hover and main header item active and let's also define a
rule which would apply if the anchor has an active class attached to it
and there I want to set the color
to well we have this nice little yellow touch here, so we could go into the blue-ish direction here,
maybe like this purple-ish color,
let's let's see how that looks like.
Not too shabby,
so let's go with that
and now since we have that active class rule here on shop.html where this link is active, we can actually
add the active class here and you will learn how to set that dynamically later in the course too of
course.
So now this is active, now for the main section
let's also style this.
Here I will define a general rule for main that I want to have a padding of let's say 1rem in all directions
and now this is the style I want to go with.
Now let's also of course work on the admin add product styling here and we can simply copy the entire
style object from the shop.html
file in the add-product.html file and this will already get us pretty far.
Now one thing we should change in add product, we should of course add all these classes, so we can basically
copy that header
and later we will also learn how to reuse it across files
by the way. So let's copy that header,
by the way that auto-formatting I'm doing occasionally can be set up in the preferences by going to
the keyboard shortcuts and searching for format document, this is the shortcut I am using here but that's
just a side note.
So here we now also have to change the active class,
it's not on the shop link here but of course it should go onto the add product link and with that if
I now reload this page, looks way better.
Now let's work on the form here too
and for this, I want to go to my form, give it a class of product form maybe, the name is up to you,
add a little div with which I give a class of form control and in that div,
I'll insert this input here and I'll also add a label for the title, put title as a label on it, give that
input the ID title so that it matches the label for accessibility reasons simply
and now let's style this too. For this
I'll use my form control,
so this class I added to this rounding div and here, I want to make sure that a label as well as an input
which is nested in a form control uses a display of type block so that it takes the full available
width
and I also want to style the input then,
so the input here should have a border of one pixel solid
and then I will reuse that yellow color we used for the header. The font should be inherited so that
it uses the default font family and so on
and I'll give it a little border radius of like two pixels maybe, let's see how that looks like or the
radius. If I now reload this, doesn't look too bad,
let's now also work on the button. For this
I will set up a generic button style here for now,
inherit the default font,
give it a border of one pixel solid and this light gray
a background of white maybe,
let's maybe give it a black border here simply and a border radius of three pixels.
Now let's see how that looks like,
it's ok but let's reuse the yellow color here actually
and let's also give the text that yellow color.
Additionally I want to make sure that we assign the pointer cursor to get this hand cursor when hovering
over it
and last but not least, I want to have some spacing but with my form control div and the button.
So on the form control itself, I'll add some margin to top and bottom of
let's say 1rem and 0 left and right
so that this looks like that
and I think for the button, maybe you want to go with the purple color since that
should be easier to read
and let's also assign a hover and an active state for that button
and when it is active, I just want to set the background color to purple and the text color to white
then.
So now it looks like this
and this doesn't look too shabby,
we can go with that I guess, we can always work on this and we will continue to work on this throughout the
course
but for now this is good.
Let's now center the entire form
and for that I assigned the product form class to the form.
So here I want to give this a width of let's say 30rem, a max width of 100% or of 90%
in case we're on a mobile
view, give it a margin of auto, this will automatically center it horizontally
and now just make sure that the input and so on take the available space so
let's reduce this 20 actually, I think 30 is a bit too much
and on the form control for laying an input
I'll give it a width of 100%.
and now this looks much better.
Now I'm not happy with the white text here now that I think about it
so let's actually go to the header and change the white link text to black, let's see how that looks like,
yeah I think I prefer that
so let's actually take that and also add it to shop.html so that we have the black color there too
and I think the purple could be a little bit darker.
So let's now also go to the hovering and active style here
and make this a darker purple and replace the purple in all occurrences with that color style.
I'm using a multi-select feature of
the IDE here to do that quickly,
I can of course also search and replace to do that, reload,
yeah I think that is a bit better.
Now you can always tweak this to your needs,
it's not a css course here.
I just want to have some basic styling that we can use.
So this is the style with which we'll go from now on and which we'll of course continue to tweak.
Now one thing we should also do now, let's copy that style from the shop.html file and put it into
the 404.html file here
because there, I also want to take the header and copy that into there because I don't just want to have
the page not found thing,
I also want to show the header. So that now if I do enter some route which does not exist, like this, we
also got the header there
and we can at least leave that route, though we can't because I obviously got an error
in the url,
that should be admin flash add product.
Now let's fix that everywhere here including our form of course,
like that
and now if I reload, we can navigate around just fine here and try adding a book, that seems to work.
And with that, we get the styling in there, we get the basic html markup
but of course regarding the styling, the issue is that it's all in our html files. It would be nice to have
some external files for that, wouldn't it?